now a group of more than 50 broadcast
journalists have sent an open letter to
the embassies of Israel and Egypt
calling for free and unfettered access
to Gaza for foreign media the letter
sent by correspondents and presenters
from the main broadcasting Outlets based
in the UK also appeals for better
protection for journalists already
reporting in the territory 55
journalists have signed the letter
including Sky News is Alex Crawford the
BBC's Jeremy Bowen oligan and fergal
Keane as well as CNN's Christian amanor
well for more on this I'm joined Now by
Alex Crawford who joins us from heral in
Iraq uh she is of course Sky news's
special correspondent and as we've just
been saying is among the signaries of
the letter thank you very much for
joining us especially while you're on
deployment Alex just tell us what the
rationale was behind this letter to
begin with well the main thinking is
that we're all terribly frustrated and
feel we're not really doing um ourselves
um Justice we're not doing the story
Justice and people aren't hearing um
particular information because foreign
journalists aren't on the ground and
this is despite multiple attempts to try
to get access into Gaza since October
the 7th from October the 7th onwards
there have been um groups of people
teams of people media organizations from
all over the world trying to get access
into Gaza and we haven't been able to
and that's definitely compromises what
is probably one of the most important
developing events in um certainly in the
region for many many decades possibly in
the world and will have ramifications
for many years to come Alex you've
traveled the world with your reporting
and you're in Iraq at the moment how
unusual is it in your experience and
through your career to have been unable
to access an area particularly one that
is the center of a major story I think
it's uh Not Unusual that some uh
governments and some regimes will try to
keep you out and that presents uh
definitely a challenge for for
journalists to try and Report accurately
inside but we in the past and even now
we're talking about uh governments or
authorities or regimes that do not
describe them as themselves as
democracies which Israel does describe
itself as Israel is proud proud of um
boasting that it is uh a liberal
democracy with an open media and yet it
is deliberately blocking uh journalists
from all over the world from getting
into Gaza that is the key difference I
mean in the past journalists like myself
have had to use boats to get into
Myanmar have had to use uh all sorts of
of of tactics to try to get inside
closed off areas and we've Managed IT
this one is is monumentally difficult
because it is an extremely small area
that we're talking about there are only
two border points and it is really
really very massively locked down by
Israel uh and also by Egypt and
seriously most governments around the
world should be worried about that and I
was just reading because you wrote a
Blog didn't you for the Sky News website
that you said that last month the
Foreign Press Association attempted to
persuade the Israeli high court to allow
journalists in but it was refused for
security concerns tell us more about
what they said to you after that ruling
then well it was the Supreme Court of of
Israel and it was brought by the Foreign
Press Association as I said there have
been multiple attempts by not only the
big media organizations around the world
but also individuals individual
journalists um uh BBC Sky ITN ITV all
signed Channel 4 all signed a letter in
November as well none of which which
have had any impact or made a jot of
difference the Supreme Court said the
that um they couldn't um they they
wouldn't lift the restrictions imposed
by the IDF and the IDF argued that this
was because journalists could be put at
risk in Wartime and they could endanger
Soldiers by reporting on troop positions
and that it's too dangerous for Israeli
Personnel to be present at the border to
facilitate press entry into Gaza well of
course all those um arguments uh you
could be posed in any war and and and
sometimes they are and usually they're
buy countries or regimes or authorities
who definitely do not want journalists
in and I would argue along with um the
more than 50 other journalists and they
are the top most well-known journalists
in Britain Jeremy Bowen a number of
presenters like Rita chakrabati Clive
mey Michelle hus as well as Tom bradby
on ITN uh all the key um War
correspondents on ITN Emma Murphy Johnny
Irvine Channel 4 Lindsay Hilson Matt Fry
Krishna and Guru Murthy there are a list
of the top most senior journalists
who've been respected and proved their
credentials the world over for many
years who've all become very worried
about the lack of access into Gaza and
what that means on telling uh an
unfolding event and tell it accurately
accurately there are some very serious
allegations against Israel allegations
of war crimes allegations of genocide
which was presented in before the the
icj the international court of justice
now until we get proper independent um
impartial foreign journalists on the
ground there it's going to be very
difficult to disprove or prove those
allegations so we would argue it's in
Israel's interest as well to allow the
free movement of of independent
journalists and of course the argument
is that there are Palestinian
journalists in there uh that's true but
on in every big story anywhere even if
you're covering the G8 Summit or the
Olympics or party conferences in Britain
you would send a a whole group of
journalists to rotate through to refresh
to re-energize to recharge those pal
Palestinian journalists inside um many
of whom have lost their homes are
scrabbling on a day-to-day basis to to
get food and water to just stay alive uh
need refreshing and we need more input
from outside indeed I wanted to to ask
you that uh before we end this interview
because yesterday about 24 hours ago in
fact rushi Abu Alou was sitting next to
me here in the studio um sharing his you
know challenges uh because it's a
personal tragedy um but he wanted to
stay as long as he could to bring that
story to us from the ground but let's
not forget the huge risks that the uh
journalists who remain in Gaza currently
face there are a high there is an
extremely high and very worrying
attrition rate of journalists inside
Gaza and that is also something that
needs investigating with many many
claims and a large amount of evidence
suggesting that they have been targeted
specifically and their families because
they're journalists now until we get
access into Gaza we also cannot prove or
disprove those and those suspicions will
continue and it's extremely worrying for
just independent accurate information if
a journalists inside are being uh
accused of not only being biased or
partisan or being coerced by hamus at
the same time as there are also
accusations that they're being targeted
by the Israeli military there needs to
be uh immediate sort of independent
access to uh an unfettered access to
foreign journalists to either put these
allegations to bed or prove them Alex
Crawford we admire you H hugely here at
the BBC thank you very much for the work
you do and thanks for joining
us thank
you around the world and across the UK
this is BBC
News